Let's get started.
And I'll actually begin
with a quick story.
At the end of 2021,
I led two consulting engagements
with two very large
enterprise organizations.
Both of these companies were
I don't know how to say it.
They were huge organizations,
billions of dollars in revenue.
They both have had design systems for
years.
They both had fully dedicated teams.
They had real budgets established,
real timelines.
They actually had folks that
were subscribing to the system.
They had all of it.
It was all going.
But they were both also
feeling some frustration.
They felt like they were stuck in
the maturity of their systems.
And so, they hired us to come and
to just do an assessment and
help them sorta understand where are they
and what have they missed that's
keeping them from being able to
move forward in a healthy way?
And so when we take on that kinda work
usually it starts with just a discovery
process.
So we sat down and did interviews with
probably I don't know as as many people as
we could get [LAUGH] at each
of these organizations.
We talked with their leadership, we talked
with folks on their design system teams
and we even spent a lot of time
talking with subscribers or
consumers of their design systems.
And we learned a ton of
stuff from all these folks.
And I will say that completing these two
consulting engagements kinda running in
parallel the at the end of that year,
it left me with two really big takeaways.
The first takeaway is that there's
still a lot of confusion out there
about what design systems are.
Every person that I talked to inside
both of these companies had a different
definition.
They had a different idea
of why they were doing it.
They had different benefits they
were hoping to get from it.
And it just really made me realize that
even inside very large organizations that
from the outside it seems like
they've got it all together.
When you get in there,
folks are still trying to figure this out.
They just there's a lot
of confusion still.
So that was my kinda first big takeaway.
And the second was that almost all
the teams I've interacted with feel like
they're not fully getting the benefit
of a systematic design practice.
You spend all this time and
all this money and
all this energy putting this thing in
place, building these processes and
writing documentation and
creating a really good usable system.
And in the end when you try to measure
this stuff it's really hard to show
that it was worth the investment.
So these two takeaways kinda left me
feeling like, we at least me at Spark box.
I hadn't done a good job
explaining systems to our clients.
And so I spent about a year and
a half looking at every design
system I could get my hands on.
And what I found is I kinda needed to take
information from all of these sources and
lots of interviews to kinda
pull together what for
me has become kinda stake in the ground
when we do work with clients.
We try to sit them down and
say, here's the big picture and
that's kinda what I wanna
share with you here.
And any good definition has
to start with the context.
So for a design system the our
context looks kinda like this.
Every organization Is trying
to connect its brand to some
audience right at a very, very high level.
This is what companies are trying to do.
[LAUGH] And they do that in
a ton of different ways, right?
Sometimes they print stuff shows up in my
mailbox, even though I never asked for it.
[LAUGH] Sometimes they make amazing
in store experiences, right?
They're trying to sorta transfer their
brand in the physical
world to their customers.
Sometimes they do advertising.
I listen to a lot of podcasts and
so now I'm tuned in to
podcast advertisements more
than I have in the past.
And pretty much every organization today
has a major touchpoint of their digital
experiences.
So things like websites or
native applications, kiosks,
lots of different places where
a digital interface can live.
And I think that this kinda gives
us the context for design system.
Your system has to sit between your
brand and the digital experiences
that we design, build and deploy in order
to connect with the desired audience.
I think this context is really important
because it helps us to understand
the inputs and the outputs of
a really effective design system.
Our systems are fed by the overarching
brand identity, the mission, the vision,
the values, all of that stuff right
that lives at the brand level.
And they have to take everything
that's offered at the brand level.
And all the stuff from that that's
needed to conceptualize, prototype,
design and build digital interfaces
across platforms and channels.
That's kinda what they have
to offer on the output side.
In this context also helps you to
decide your first big question,
which is do I actually need
a design system right?
Now I like to break this question down
in a couple of ways there's sorta
two main factors that I think about,
those two are scale and longevity.
Let's talk really quickly
about each of these.
So on the scale side,
there's this idea of organizational scale.
Of course,
we're thinking about the number of teams,
but there's a lot more than just
the size of the organization.
There's also the complexity
of the organization.
How are those teams structured?
Also, the maturity, this is a huge deal.
How skilled are the individuals that
you have inside your organization?
If you have a single team that's
made up of really skilled,
high experienced folks,
you probably don't need a system.
That one team with really good folks
are gonna be able to figure out how to do
the work you need to do
in an efficient way.
They're gonna create really
cohesive experiences.
So that's a situation where a small scale
with really mature folks probably means
you don't need this, you know?
But if you've got a scale really good
design across a complex organization with
a variety of skill levels, well that's
a scenario where a system can really help.
Also on the side of scale, there's
the idea of whatever it is that you offer.
So your products or your channels,
of course the number of
products is important, but
also the number of channels.
So if you've got a single
e-commerce website,
a system is not gonna make a huge impact,
right?
If you just have one site,
that's your main thing.
But if you have multiple digital
products across web, across native,
across other digital touchpoints, then a
system can really help in that situation.
So that's the scale side
of this decision factor.
And the other side is longevity and
this side is a little bit more
about limiting your risk.
[LAUGH] So if you have to,
you have to really think about considering
the stability of the market and
the stability of the product
that you're working on.
And that's because design systems
are require a huge investment.
So, if you're gonna spend all this time
and money on a thing, you wanna make
sure that that product that market is
stable beyond at least a year, right?
It takes oftentimes a year or more for you
to start to realize the value of a system.
So these things are are expensive.
The investment's high and it takes time
for you to recoup that investment.
This is why I talk about this
as limiting risk, right?
If your product is gonna
go away in a year,
it's probably not the one to
start your design system with.
Of course, if the product and
market are stable,
this can be a really good way to get
more efficiency out of your process.
Or another model is where you have
some really stable products but
you wanna experiment with other ideas.
And so you can use the stability
of a set of your products
to kinda be the guinea pig for
your design system.
And that gives you then,
the ability to use that system to
prototype new ideas in a really rapid way.
In general, I kinda feel like having
one of these on your side is enough to
really consider a system.
But if you've got two, it makes
a much more compelling case, right?
So if you've got a very stable product,
but
you've got a really high
complexity organization.
That's probably enough for
you to really think about doing a system.
If you don't have any of this,
I would probably say maybe
don't worry about it yet.
[LAUGH] But if you've got all three,
that's definitely a scenario where
a system can make a huge, impact.